The Young Idea Saturday 3<hi>hi</hi> April 1858.

an fall, dead or wounded among the bushes or the rocks.

We remainder for a while still and quiet hoping that the scared tenants of the Island would soon forget their alarm, and return to their accustomed haunts: but in this our patience was tired, and as darkness came on we thought it best to row to the larger Island where perhaps we might meet with a less timid block, and also find better waters for our piscatorial recreation. In this however we were much mistaken, for not a Pigeon could be seen or heard, and it appeared to us that being entirely inhabitants of the Rock this larger Island was too much overgrown with bust to afford them a covert to their taste.

We were delighted how=ever with the romantic position of the spot where we had brought our boat to anchor. High and rugged rocks, rose on either side of us, rendered more sombre in aspect by the wild bushes that threw their shade on the creeping plants that trailed their long fibres over them. The water below us was comparatively deep, and the moon added its silver rays to render the scene more perfectly enchanting.	The tenants of the deep now showed themselves some=what less shy, and wary than their feathered heighbows of the air, and three or four fine fish accepted the tempting baits we offered them: out boats indeed disappeared with a great capac=ity, but we thought they were frequently sucked off in a sneak=ing way by the sea-snakes or eels that seem to frequent this neigh=bour hood.

Night now advancing. We contented ourselves with our [column break] present sport, and thought of re=turning to our ship.

But I must not close my sheet, without relating the ad=venture of one of the mare daring of our sportsmen. Having wandered to the farther side of the Island, where instead of rising rocks, there is a shelving beach running out gradually into the sea, our friend had the good fortune to shoot a snipe on some small bird of that description, which fell fluttering a little way into the sea. Anxious to secure his prize. he had already bushed wading thro’ the shallow water, when the fin of a shark was seen rising above the surface and in a moment more the feathered prey had disappeared in his devouring maw.

If you wade into shallow water. M<hi>r</hi> Editor, be careful how you go, and Believe me,

Ever your sincere friend

Syivanus Shotbeit

[line break]

The Young Idea

[line break]

Mining Intelligence
from our own Commissioner.

On first insliuting our mineralogical enquiries on board Her Majestys Ship “Chesapeake”, we were encouraged by learn=ing that oars (ores) of various descriptions were generally to be found in the ship’s Boats. On our enquiring whether they were merely scattered ores, or whether Lodes of any value might be found, we were informed that heavy loads (lodes) were frequently to be seen in the same locality. Descending now to par=ticular metals, we enquired whether we were likely to meet with any lead in the ship and were at once told that it would most likely be found in the mains chains, on out next knen=tioning Plumbags, we were answered that nobody had ever heard of Plumbags, but that Plumduff in great quantities might sometimes be met with in the Ship’s Copper. The mention of copper now led us to enquire whether any Vein of that metal had yet been discovered, and we received to reply a very good
