The Young Idea. Saturday 3<hi>rd</hi> April 1858

[line break]

hour or two of practice will keep our Cricketers in hand, in readiness to regain the laurels which were so lately soon from them by the squadron.

[line break]

The Penal Colony in the Andaman Islands

We have already mentioned in a former Number, that this wild group of islands has been selected as a pa=nal settlement for the Indian rebels; we subjoin a few extracts from a scinde paper, showing that one party of them is already on the way thither

“We have a great pleasure in “informing our readers, that the “amiable gentlemen from the “Punjaub 9300 in No.) with whose “company we were recently fa=voured, have ceased to trespass “on our hospitality, having been “safely lodged on board the ships “”Roman Emperor” & “Edward” en “route to the Andanman Islands”

“The Indian government “has been extremely liberal to “the rascally mutineers. The “steamer “semiramis” has been “sent down to the Andamands, “with provisions, and clothing, “agricultural implements, “&c— &c— sufficient to last [column break] “two years, as also materials for” making huts. She is to remain “there to guard the miscreants “as also to protect them from the “assaults of the natives. The men “on their arrival, will have their “fetters struck off, and be parti=ally armed, so as to be a match “for the Cannibals and their “poisoned arrows.”

“We understand that the “nuiserable wretches had not the “slightest intonation of their “departure; for so great is the horror of transportation to a “high caste native, that an :emeute” would most probably “have taken place if only to pro=“cure their own death”.

Sind. K. Shid. March 2.

[line break]

Sporting on Pigeon Island.
To the Eidtor of the “Young Idea:

As probably you may have been too much occupied with the pen or pencil. The give attention to the fowling piece or fishing line, permit me to record how a few brethren of the angle, and the gun sallied forth for an evening’s pleasure at Pigeon Island. The smaller Island of that name was the first to which we steered our boat; it was not long before it verified its name for so we secured our footing upon the Rock. a cloud of grey or slate colored Pigeons lose from the various crannies and crevices, disturbed by the approach of such unusual Visitors.

Our guess were at once raised to our shoulders, but the birds were as yet too distant to be hit, and we scrambled farther into the little Island; eventual we had the pleasure of seeing 3 or 4 of their number drop from their flight,