The Young Idea Saturday 17<hi>th</hi> April 1858.

[line break]

of domestic Architecture & that the design evidently originated from a Naval brain. Sleeping apartments, like cabins open from either sid of the hall and long dining room; side entrances from without occupying a position which reminds us of a Ship’s gangway, while the drawing room, with its semicircular Verandah & jaloisied side Cabins, bring to our recollection, the after cabin of a ship with its stern ports and gallery. Through these various apartments the guests wandered. In the drawing room alaft, might be seen a small party of staid whist players, part=ners of the dance occasionally strolled to breathe the fresh air in the stern gallery, but the chief scene of anmcement was the song aiming room, (which we were just going to call the Main Deck of the Ronee). Here partners circulated on the slippery boards and fair forms - all that Trincomalee could furnish- rested in the shoulders of young Naval heroes, as they joined in the Polka or Galope.	The band was stationed at the Port gangway, and its loud notes, echoed most brassily Thro’ the co-lonmades & hall.	All that we could la=ment was the fancity of the fair sex, and we must offer a tribute of admiration to the few ladies present for hearty man=ner in which they kept up dance after dance without symptoms of weariness. Midnight passed, and Sir Roger de Couerley came in to claim his usual homages, young & old, grave & gay; joined in the merry dance of our forefathers; then the good folk of Trincomalee returned homeward, many of us from the ship sat down hungrily to a famous supperl the part is broken up at early morning; tired sleepers occupy the cabins of the house; lights are extinguished; silence reigns; & wondering rats who dwell in the lower pre=mises, venture up again to pursue their noc=turnal perambulations, through those same apartments which had so lately witnessed, the busy, moving scene of biped life.

[line break]

Shooting Party to Lake Tamligan.

Having completed our arrangements, filled our flasks & shot belts, and being full armed & equipped, we had short time to [illegible], ere our loot came alongside. As soon however as [column break] she, came, we went over the side, and laid ourselves in the bottom of the boat, upon mats, which were plentifully spread for our use. The sun however, threatening to scorch as up like cinders, we were necessitated to take some of the mats to form a screen, these formed a cool & grateful shade, and we were most decidedly a shade better in comfort a cool & refreshing breeze, met us as we rounded the point; & sail was made upon the boat & we glided swiftly & noiselessly over the dark blue wa=ters. We made the mouth of a river which abraham, in formed us, was the stream in which the pearls of Cylonf are obtained. A strong tide met us, as we entered & we were obliged to stand in shore to get out of its influence.

We ascended this river about seven miles, the scenery around us was beautiful, the blue mountains rising right ahead, the shining river, the sandy banks, surmounted with the graceful cuevamet, the gigantic fany an standing out with hold front from the thick jungle, here & there the roof of a native but peeping thro’, native canoes moored to the shore, dancing lightly on the waves, a swarthy figure in motion, here & there, giving life and animation to the scene all was charming & interesting

We refreshed ourselves with draughts of cocoa nut milk, and drinking it out of the nut itself, it better we consider, than to use a glass, the anaught was delicious so cooling, so invigorating, After following the course of the river, which was in some places very shallow, we stood over to a long range of mangrove trees, whose branches were drooping under water; to our eyes this appeared im pervious, but as we neared it, we noticed an opening for which our boat was steered. We steered up this creek, and found ourselves, much shaded from the sun, by the spreading boughs of the mangrove trees, which were realin, growing in the water.	All was silent, the occasional twittering of a bird, or cracking of a tree, the drop of a leaf into the quiet water, unruffled by the slightest breath of wind, were the only sounds of these made the silence which succeeded more impressions. Out mast & sail was lowered, & rowers stretched their sinewy backs to the paddles and urged our boat swiftly tho’ the numerous ivendings & turnings if the creek, the ground gradually rising, till at least we came to an open part where the boat was put on shore and we landed not at all sorry to stretch our legs. At about five minutes walk from the landing place we came to a large tamarind tree, which gave a grateful shelter with its spreading arms, near to this stood a vines shanty, which was too dirty & too much neglected for us to make much use of.

All hands were now employed, unpacking, loading guns, and preparing ourselves for the afternoon’s chase; in about half an hour our fires were lighted, mats spread, and cooking commenced, which we contemplated in comfortable enjoyment in some shady corner, settled down on mats & rugs, solacing ourselves with a pipe.

As soon as the sun had got sufficiently low we started on our first search for game, we sepa=rated into two parties, two of us taking one guide, while one <hi>more</hi> ^(Moore) went with another guide.

We had not left our encampment more than a guarter on an hour, whom the quick eyes of our native friend discerned fame, & with a “hist” the warmed us to round the glance, observed a peacock with stately head & sweeping tail, trailing along the ground, erasing