TYI1153

The Young Idea. Saturday 20<hi>th</hi> March 1858.

[line break]

Funeral of the Queen of Oude.

Just at the time when the last trace of sovereignty is departing from the Ma=hometan dynasties which have so long held in subjection the native tribes of Hindostan, our sympathies have been exited for one, the late Queen of Oude, who has breather her last in land ‘of the Christian Strangers, and the thought steals over us that perchance sorrow has hastened her end.

In her last illness, which took place at Paris, Mahometan Priests were around her bed, and her female attendants shield=ed her from the touch of strangers; prayers were recited as enjoined by the Ma=hometan faith, and after death, her body was embalmed & wrapped in linen, after Oriental custom; the night before her funeral, the insig=nia of royalty were laid upon her corpse, “a diadem upon her “brow, a necklace round her neck, “and circlets of amber round her “arms and legs” “amulets were “also attached to the coverings of “her body”. Female watchers guarded the remains of their Royal mistress, and prayers were cecited all the night.

In the morning, the ornaments were removed; the body placed in its coffin, (which was made to receive it in a sitting posture_ and a funeral car hung with white silk, bore it to the Turkish Cemetery.

The conquerors of India, possessed of the Royal palaces of Delhi and Lucknow, may well afford to drop a tear o=ver one, harmless in herself, whose breathless form may be regarded as a fitting emblem oh the departed sovereignties of Hindostan.

[line break]

The “Ava” Wreck

The past week has not been uninteresting, or without a de=gree of excitement, and it has not been passed in idleness. Our occupation has been entirely con=joined to the wreck; the crank shaft of the “Alma” which we believe is con=sidered of more importance than [column break] even the treasure, has been found, raised, and safely brought on board, forty boxes of spice and mont more of indigo, silk, &c have also been recovered. 

Our working parties have left the ship every morning at daylight and on reaching the wreck, their first duty is breakfast. The pinnace attends solely to the stage, or raft on which the diving gear is place and from which the diver descends to explore the hid-den depths. The two launches have been employed in cleaning away the wreck and discovering. The shaft, en=livening the scene with their apropos songs, as they hauled their boats near=ly under water. At least, a cry “There’s the shaft” and all hands, peered and strained to see the massive weight to be raised. At least it was cleared and buoyed to await the completion of the stage by which it was to be raised.

On Saturday morning everything was in readiness, and the pontoon (as we must call it for want of a better term) was moored above the sunken shaft. Our Diver then descended and passed the lashings found it, and it was thus safely and speedily raised.. The young pontoon consisted of two native boats, with large spars laid across and firmly lashed, with supports raised from the bottom of the boats, &fore and afters on which the upper spars rested thus taking the strain off the gunwales of the boats. Cashs were lashed under the bows & sterns, and a crab conch placed on a platform built on the upper spars, was the means of raising the prize. Boats then took the pontoon in tow, and after a little trouble & delay in cleaning the wreck, the whole was safely conveyed to the ship

The wreck has unfortunately assumed a position under water, which renders it very difficult, and we may say dangerous to the man engaged in searching the nooks and crannies of the confused mass of iron & wood in which the boxes of specie are involved and on one occasion a large angle iron gall with some force on the diver’s foot: luckily; the thick leather boot preven=ted its doing any serious injury; but