The Young Idea. Saturday. 24<hi>th</hi> March 1858.

[line break]

The “Ava”’s Encampment

The white tents of the ‘Ava’s encamp meant form such an interesting fea=ture in the landscape, as seen from the ship, that we resolved the other day to see how the ship=wrecked Officer’s and crew were managing: so being conveyed to the shore in a ship’s boat, and landed on the shoulders of a blue=jacket, we made our way up the beach, and were kindly wel=comed by one of the Ava’s Officers at the entrance of the principal tent. The tents, we found, were almost worthy to be dignified by the name of houses, being indeed quite equal to many of the houses which are here inhabited by the natives of Trincomalee. A frame work of Bamboo is soon run up, and covered no less easily with the leaves of the Cocoa nut, plaited into a rough sort of matting, which seems to answer all purposes of keeping out wind and weather

The principal tent for the Officers is of considerable length, enclosed at the sides, but open at both ends, it is nice= by floored with plank, and covered with matting. Stand=ing bed places, saved from the basens, plenty of arm chairs, & various other little articles of furniture give an air of elected comfort to the temporary rese=dence, & we almost envied them their airy method of taking their nights rest, as we contrasted it with the steerage, or close [column break] cabins or our own ship; tho’ on the other hand the thought stole across us, that a nocturnal visit from snakes, jackals, wild cats or other prowling inhabitants of the ad=joining jungle, would by no means contribute to the placidity of our repose. Several buffaloes were grazing behind the tent, showing that beed was not scare, while with=in the tent we believe preserved meats are not lacking, and other good articles of diet, which have been saved from the wreck itself The various, books, bibles, news papers &c, which we observed lying about the tent, proved that food for the mind also was not deficient. The spot on which the encampment is pitched, consists of the interval of loose sand, between the sea beach, and the bush. A lagoon is seen to stretch some little dis=tance behind, and a rough, sandy wad freshly cut by the natives, penetrates the bush, and commu=nicates we believe, with a beaten track at the distance of a mile or two. From the same quarter fresh water is procured. The Ava’s Bell suspended on wooden props, added somewhat of romantic interest to the encampment, as well as one of the signal guns, which seemed to stand as sentry before the tent. A white swallow tailed flag, waving from a bamboos, also gave the whole spot a picturesque air; but this we understood was more to please the Mahonetan Divers, who thought they would