The Young Idea Saturday 10<hi>th</hi> April 1858.

[line break]

by trees, humbler swellings of the na=tives, overshadowed by palm trees; a few dark figures, crossing the common that interoenes between the village & the sea. Then a rough rocky pro=montory meets our view, with small rounded hills, clothed with wild trees and bushes down to the water’s edge. We wind our way round it, and see a harbor opening before us with smooth water receding in various di=rections among the green, bush covered hills. There is a rough eminence to our right with a small fort on the sum=mit, and a low rocky point jutting out beneath, armed with two or three guns. Still we wind round it; we lose sight of the open sea, and the water seems everywhere landlocked in every direction there are low, rocky, but bushy hills, with the bright blue water running into the various windings & inlets, which seem to be interminable

We have so wound over way in that we are now at the very back of Fort Frederick, and we see its flagstaff in the distance rising right ahead of us, we are abreast of the little Dock Yard, and here for a time we are made fast to the shore, to coal, and over ship rests in perfect stillness.

[line break]

A trip to Sober Island.

We shoved off from the ship about 4 P.M. in the gig with as good a crew as we could possibly have desired, men who had evidently made up their minds to a good pull, and to enjoy themselves, and whose merry laughter gave evidence to the universal good [column break] humor which prevailed amongst as; in fact a merrier, and (we must say) a noisier crew, we have rarely met with Under the influence of a long stroke the boat shot rapidly along, our men pulled capitally, when as the island was neared, they evinced a decided determination to admire the scenery which delighted the eye on every side, instead of rowing, and they required some stirring up from those who performed the more pleasant task of steering, to give way the required distance, but as the landing place broke upon them sight a hearty cheer escaped from their lips and they piled their oars so vigorously that he began to entertain fears that the oars would be broken. However we got safely to land, and having made fast the boat trudged up to the bungalow. The greater number of our party were evidently much disturbed by the ascent of the hill, if we might judge by the frequent ejaculations of “ut-chee” which they gave vent to; but our fainting hearts were revived by the cool refresh=ing breeze which met us as we entered the friendly roof, and we inhaled deep=ly go this invigorating wind, whilst our spirits were renewed with gin & water, and our senses composed by the soothing influence of a weed. Here we lolled about, and laughed & talked and admired the view, till it was pro=posed that we should adjoin to the lower ground, and there indulge in a game of quoits. Our arrangements were soon made and as speedily acted upon and here we spent another hour of fun and amusement, after which two or three of the party cooled the missiles on the glassy waters of the bay which looked more than ordinarily tempting. We then retraced our steps to the boat and were 